

This a model from the article:  
**Theoretical analysis of biochemical pathways of nitric oxide release from vascular endothelial cells.**   
Chen K, Popel AS. _Free Radic Biol Med_ 2006 Aug 15;41(4):668-80
[16864000](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16864000) ,  
**Abstract:**   
Vascular endothelium expressing endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS)
produces nitric oxide (NO), which has a number of important physiological
functions in the microvasculature. The rate of NO production by the
endothelium is a critical determinant of NO distribution in the vascular wall.
We have analyzed the biochemical pathways of NO synthesis and formulated a
model to estimate NO production by the microvascular endothelium under
physiological conditions. The model quantifies the NO produced by eNOS based
on the kinetics of NO synthesis and the availability of eNOS and its
intracellular substrates. The predicted NO production from microvessels was in
the range of 0.005-0.1 microM/s. This range of predicted values is in
agreement with some experimental values but is much lower than other rates
previously measured or estimated from experimental data with the help of
mathematical modeling. Paradoxical discrepancies between the model predictions
and previously reported results based on experimental measurements of NO
concentration in the vicinity of the arteriolar wall suggest that NO can also
be released through eNOS-independent mechanisms, such as catalysis by neuronal
NOS (nNOS). We also used our model to test the sensitivity of NO production to
substrate availability, eNOS concentration, and potential rate-limiting
factors. The results indicated that the predicted low level of NO production
can be attributed primarily to a low expression of eNOS in the microvascular
endothelial cells.

This model was taken from the [CellML
repository](http://www.cellml.org/models) and automatically converted to SBML.  
The original model was: [ **Chen K, Popel AS. (2006) - version=1.0**
](http://models.cellml.org/exposure/2eaf18a50db98ca8126198c7d597c744)  
The original CellML model was created by:  
**Catherine Lloyd**   
c.lloyd@auckland.ac.nz  
The University of Auckland  

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not..  
  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)

